About
===

Built in response to a live coding test for the University of Notre Dame. Limit 1 hour.

> Write a Ruby on Rails app that lets me track club memberships.  Scaffolding is fine; SQLite is fine. Do as much as you can in this hour, prioritizing items as you see fit.  Use GitHub. When you're done, provide me the repo URL, plus instructions on how to run the app, and be prepared to discuss your work.  

> *Classes*
- Clubs should have names, descriptions, and an attribute that states whether they are currently accepting members.  
- Users should have first / last names and date of birth.  
- Users may belong to more than one club.  

> *Validations*
- All fields should have sensible validations on data type and input.
- I should not be able to create a user with the same first/last/dob as another, nor assign the same user to a club twice.

> *Testing*
- Write tests for your app in whatever framework you prefer

> *View Layer*
- Clean up the scaffolding to eliminate unnecessary fields
- Provide drop-downs for field values where appropriate.
- On the club page, display a bulleted list of club member names.
- Next to the name, provide a button that removes the user from the club.  I should get a confirmation pop-up before this occurs.

> *Javascript*
- When creating a club, use client-side validation to limit the club name to 30 characters
- On submit, stop me from submitting if the club name is over 30 characters.  Alert me somehow of the problem.
- As I type, provide an indicator next to the text input that displays the number of characters

So basically I'm gonna build meetup.com

Installation
===

1. Clone to local machine
2. `bundle install`
3. `rake db:create`
4. `rake db:migrate`
5. localhost:3000 and away you go!

Development
===

During Code Test
---
In just over an hour I had used scaffolding to set up CRUD(Creation, Read, Update, Delete) for User and Club model. Normally I don't use the default scaffolding or generators. I was taught to do everything by hand as it ensured I knew exactly what was going into my app and it; of course, taught me the specifics of how Rails worked. In this instance, time was against me so I leaned on the crutch of scaffolding. However, because I never use scaffolding I didn't know the exact commands which used precious minutes while looking them up. 

The next thing I tackled in that hour was verification of unique users. I had found that I could get all fields unique apart from each other. But, that's not very useful 'cause there are of course people with similar first names and so on. I used the `validates :l_name, :uniqueness => { :scope => :f_name, :case_sensitive => false }` method to find uniqueness on two fields. _Still working on 3._

Next task was to get the Membership table working.
```ruby
class Club < ActiveRecord::Base
	has_many :memberships
	has_many :users, through: :memberships
end

class Membership < ActiveRecord::Base
	belongs_to :user
	belongs_to :club
end

class User < ActiveRecord::Base
	has_many :memberships
	has_many :clubs, through: :memberships
end
```

Through the rails console I know the `has_many through:` relationship works.
```
2.1.1 :001 > User.first
 => #<User id: 1, f_name: "Ryan", l_name: "Snodgrass", dob: "1986-04-28">
2.1.1 :002 > User.first.clubs
 => #<ActiveRecord::Associations::CollectionProxy []>
2.1.1 :003 > Club.first
 => #<Club id: 3, name: "club", description: "skdj", accepting: true>
2.1.1 :004 > Club.first.users
 => #<ActiveRecord::Associations::CollectionProxy []>
 ```
 
It doesn't error out. Let's see if we can get it to create a relationship via the console. *Get this working later*
 
And that was all the time I had.

Additions
---
On my own time I decided to keep adding. I wanted users to sign up and be able to create a club. Only the user that creates the club can make changes. I will be using the [devise gem](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise) for authentication and the [cancancan gem](https://github.com/CanCanCommunity/cancancan) for user permissions.

###Devise Gem

The Devise Gem is mostly straight forward as long as you don't start messing with things as it gets finicky once you start customizing things. After putting the gem in my gemfile and running `rails generate devise:install` and then `rails generate devise User`I then copied and pasted a couple links and now the app has registrations working. Funny enough, by default devise does not include all fields like name or DOB when running the generator. That has to be put in manually.

A quick gotcha I hadn't caught earlier was that when I put in the Devise gem, first name and last name were no longer being saved into the DB. I was getting an unpermitted parameters error when updating and creating
```
Started PUT "/users" for 127.0.0.1 at 2014-09-14 14:37:44 -0400.Processing by Devise::RegistrationsController#update as HTML.  Parameters: {"utf8"=>"✓", "authenticity_token"=>"smS7azhqJEBQx1bKVIaSNgUyocT8EpYaZi7ZkkAFDMk=", "user"=>{"f_name"=>"Ryan", "l_name"=>"Snodgrass", "dob"=>"2005-06-15", "email"=>"res0428@yahoo.com", "password"=>"[FILTERED]", "password_confirmation"=>"[FILTERED]", "current_password"=>"[FILTERED]"}, "commit"=>"Update"}
User Load (0.2ms)  SELECT  "users".* FROM "users"  WHERE "users"."id" = 5  ORDER BY "users"."id" ASC LIMIT 1.  User Load (0.2ms)  SELECT  "users".* FROM "users"  WHERE "users"."id" = ? LIMIT 1  [["id", 5]].Unpermitted parameters: f_name, l_name, dob
```

Normally a pretty easy error. I might have missed the defined parameters in the users_controller or something simple like that. But - 
```ruby
def create
    @user = User.new(user_params)
    respond_to do |format|
      if @user.save
        format.html { redirect_to @user, notice: 'User was successfully created.' }
        format.json { render :show, status: :created, location: @user }
      else
        format.html { render :new }
        format.json { render json: @user.errors, status: :unprocessable_entity }
      end
    end
end
  
def user_params
  params.require(:user).permit(:f_name, :l_name, :dob)
end
```
Nope. Strangely all the unpermitted items were there but, none of the `password` or `email` that IS going through. Even stranger - debugger is completely being ignored. Which tells me that the user controller isn't even being hit.

If we look closely at the console output we can see that it tells us that `Processing by Devise::RegistrationsController#update` is where it is actually processing. But where is that? I scoured my source files and cant find that specific controller. 

Devise's documentation tells us that to add new attributes to a form- put in a specific method in the application controller. So I tried- 
```ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  before_action :configure_permitted_parameters, if: :devise_controller?

  def configure_permitted_parameters
    devise_parameter_sanitizer.for(:sign_up) { |u| u.permit(:f_name, :l_name, :dob, :email, :password, :password_confirmation, :current_password) }
    devise_parameter_sanitizer.for(:account_update) { |u| u.permit(:f_name, :l_name, :dob, :email, :password, :password_confirmation, :current_password) }
  end
end
```

AND IT WORKED. Problem solved!

###User Permissions
For a little bit extra I just want a simple check that only the user that started the club may edit and add members. Normally I would use a foriegn key with a `belongs_to :user` but, that might not work as I'm already associating users with memberships. Instead I'll have a column `created_by` with foriegn keys and upon club creation save the `current_user.id` in the column. Reference that when checking whether `current_user.id == @club.created_by`. I've used the CanCanCan gem before and it works awesome but, in this case I feel it would be a little bit of over kill when in about 3 seconds I can just write a little bit of logic to check user permissions.

First thing, I need to add a 'created_by' column in the club table.

`rails g migration AddCreatedByToClubs created_by:integer`
This creates a migration file and auto generates the add column with what I want in it. Always check anyways and make sure it generated your migration file correctly.
```ruby
class AddCreatedByToClubs < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def change
    add_column :clubs, :created_by, :integer
  end
end
```
Looks good.
```
rake db:migrate
```

In the club form add in `created_by` as a hidden value.
```
#app/views/clubs/_form.html.haml
= f.hidden_field :created_by, :value => current_user.id
```
And in the club controller add in the `created_by` column in the salting
```ruby
#app/controllers/clubs_controller.rb
def club_params
  params.require(:club).permit(:name, :description, :accepting, :created_by)
end
```

Now let's put in the quick logic.
```
#app/views/clubs/index.html.haml
    - @clubs.each do |club|
  %tr
    %td= club.name
    %td= club.description
    %td= club.accepting
    %td= link_to 'Show', club
    - if current_user.id == club.created_by
      %td= link_to 'Edit', edit_club_path(club)
      %td= link_to 'Destroy', club, method: :delete, data: { confirm: 'Are you sure?' }
```

Bam! Done.  
While we're here let's fix the boolean view for `accepting` to something more acceptable. Instead of an input field, I'm gonna make it a simple checkbox.
```
#app/views/clubs/_form.html.haml
= f.label :accepting
%br/
= f.check_box :accepting
```

###Memberships

Now onto the meat of the app. Getting users to associate with clubs. In a real app this would probably be a very involved feature. The club owner could search for users and send a notification to the prospect's email with the invitation. Meanwhile the prospect could shop for other clubs and then send a notification to the club owner for an invitation. There could be growler notifications and popups and recommendations and all very good, but this could go on forever. For now, I just want select users to invite/expell people.

First thing we need to is add a way to view all users on the view layer. Only the club administrator can make changes so I'll simply put the invitation function inside the edit page.   
```
#app/views/clubs/edit.html.haml
%h1 Editing club
= render 'form'

- @users.each do |u|
	= u.f_name
	= u.l_name
	- if @club.memberships.include?(u)
		%h5 Current Member
		= link_to 'Expell Member', club_membership_path(:id => u.id), :method => :delete
	- else
		%h5 Not a Member
		= link_to 'Invite Member', club_memberships_path(:id => u.id), :method => :post


= link_to 'Show', @club
= link_to 'Back', clubs_path
```

Great. Now Let's update the routes and get some nesting going. Because I could eventually want users to invite themselves for whatever reason, I want both clubs and users nesting memberships.
```ruby
resources :users, :clubs do
    resources :memberships
end
```
Good stuff.

Now we need to update the membership controller.
```
asdf
```